This is a simulation I made for my Final Degree Project in which I'm working on the analysis of different direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation algorithms that will be applied in the implementation of a digital beamformer for the reception of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites signals. In this case I'm testing the ESPRIT algorithm, an algorithm that exploits the statistical properties of a noisy signal in order to determine its different parameters.
In this simulation I'm sending a tone from a moving satellite to a phased array antenna from different directions. The upper figure shows the real DOA at each instant of time. The figure below shows the estimated DOA versus its real value for a simulation with SNR = 0 dB. It can be seen that the estimated value approximates with accuracy to the real value.
In this implementation I'm using a random sampling method that allows to reach real-time performance.
With a few small changes the same algorithm may be used to estimate the carrier frequency of a modulated signal.

This is a simulation that I did for my Final Degree Project in which I am working on the analysis of different arrival direction estimation (DOA) algorithms that will be applied in the implementation of a digital beamformer to receive signals from LEO satellites. In this case, I am testing the ESPRIT algorithm, an algorithm that exploits the statistical properties of a noisy signal to determine its different parameters.
In this simulation, I am sending a tone from a moving satellite to a phased array antenna from different directions. The upper figure shows the actual DOA at each instant of time. The figure below shows the estimated DOA versus its actual value for a simulation with SNR = 0 dB. It can be seen that the estimated value accurately approximates the actual value.
In this implementation, I am using a random sampling method that allows real time performance to be achieved.
With a few small changes, the same algorithm can be used to estimate the carrier frequency of a modulated signal.

The simulation shown below forms part of my Final Degree Project. It relates to the analysis of different direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation algorithms, that will be applied afterwards to a digital beamformer for the reception of signals from Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites. In this present case, we are testing ESPRIT, an algorithm that exploits the shift structure of the sensing array, in order to determine the different parameters of received noisy signals.

In this simulation, a tone is sent from a moving satellite impinging a phased array antenna from different directions. The upper figure shows the actual DOA at each instant. The figure below shows the estimated DOA versus its actual value for a signal-to-noise ratio of 0 dB. It can be seen that the estimated value accurately approximates the actual value.

In this particular implementation, a random sampling technique was used, reducing significantly the computational burden and, therefore, enabling real-time performance.

With some minor modifications, the same algorithm can be used to estimate the carrier frequency of a modulated signal.

La simulación que se muestra a continuación forma parte de mi proyecto final de grado, el cual se relaciona con el análisis de diferentes algoritmos de estimación de dirección de arribo (DOA) los cuales serán aplicados luego a la implementación de un conformador de haz digital para la recepción de señales de satélites de baja órbita (LEO). En esta ocasión se testeó el algoritmo ESPRIT, un algoritmo que explota la estructura de desplazamiento de la matriz de detección para determinar los diferentes parámetros de las señales ruidosas recibidas.
En esta simulación se envía un tono desde un satélite en movimiento, el cual impacta sobre un arreglo de antenas en fase desde diferentes direcciones. La figura superior muestra la dirección de arribo real en cada instante de tiempo. La figura de abajo muestra la dirección de arribo estimada por el algoritmo comparada con su valor real para una relación señal a ruido de 0 dB. Puede verse que el valor estimado aproxima con precisión a su valor real.
En esta implementación en particular, una técnica de muestreo aleatorio fue utilizada, reduciendo significativamente la carga computacional y, consecuentemente, permitiendo un desempeño en tiempo real.
Con algunas mínimas modificaciones, el mismo algoritmo puede utilizarse para estimar la frecuencia de portadora de una señal modulada.

The simulation shown below forms part of my Final Degree Project. It relates to the analysis of different direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation algorithms, that will be applied afterwards to a digital beamformer for the reception of signals from Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites. In this present case, we are testing ESPRIT, an algorithm that exploits the shift structure of the sensing array, in order to determine the different parameters of received noisy signals.
In this simulation, a tone is sent from a moving satellite impinging a phased array antenna from different directions. The upper figure shows the actual DOA at each instant. The figure below shows the estimated DOA versus its actual value for a signal-to-noise ratio of 0 dB. It can be seen that the estimated value accurately approximates the actual value.
In this particular implementation, a random sampling technique was used, reducing significantly the computational burden and, therefore, enabling real-time performance.
With some minor modifications, the same algorithm can be used to estimate the carrier frequency of a modulated signal.
#ESPRIT #satellite #satellitecommunications #satcom  #datascience #dataengineering #telecommunication #beamforming #RF #python #statisticalanalysis #algorithms 